---
layout: post
category: computers
location: "~/itrussell/computers"
snippet: My appreciation for Python whitespace.
title: A Quick Byte
---
This is going to be a little bit of a short post. A thought occurred to me recently when shifting to a little more programming in C++, that my coding style was very natural and automatically very clean and organized. I never actually studied any sort of coding style, and in fact, when I started off learning Java, I had all sorts of strange indentation and spacing habits. Fortunately, I didn't get stuck in the masochist world of Java  for too long and quickly learned to enjoy Python much, much, more. Of course, Python is an easier language (on the surface), but I didn't truly enjoy programming until learning it.  The syntax of Python and the freedom of expression it provides truly disintegrated the boundary between solving a problem and just trying to get something to compile (A whole other post could be written about just this). I mean, honestly, there have been times when I could literally guess at an expression in Python and have it work out. But the language did have one important component that was much stricter than the rest of its rules. Indentation. 

As anyone who is ever written python knows, don't use tabs. Tabs represent a different character than spaces and thus will cause the incredibly annoying indentation errors Python will throw at run time, especially when copying and pasting. Just an FYI. The greater point here is that Python cares so much about indentations it will not even run if they are not correctly set. After spending quite a bit of time in this indentation paradigm, it will become extremely natural. So recently when I started brushing up on Algorithms, specifically using C++, I realized my code style was so much cleaner than when I first started programming in Java. This, of course, is all thanks to Python.

It is possible, and potentially very beneficial, to utilize the quirks and features of certain languages to reinforce certain useful programming concepts. So now I plan to do this again, this time with memory safety. Recently I discovered a language called Rust. Rust is very special in the fact that it forces the writer to use good memory utilization habits. And if my logic carries, the more comfortable I get in Rust, the better I will be at C++ and anything lower. So hopefully soon I will get some time to work on a larger project using Rust and start capitalizing on any sort of attainable benefits.
